I'm Burr Sutter.
I'm a Red Hatter who spends a lot of time talking to technologists about technologies.
We say this a lot at Red Hat.
No single technology provider holds the key to success, including us.
And I would say the same thing about myself.
I love to share ideas, so I thought it would be awesome to talk to some brilliant technologists at Red Hat Partners.
This is Code Comments, an original podcast from Red Hat.
I'm sure, like many of you here, you have been thinking about AI/ML, artificial intelligence and machine learning.
I've been thinking about that for quite some time and I actually had the opportunity to work on a few successful projects, here at Red Hat,
using those technologies, actually enabling a data set,
gathering a data set, working with a data scientist and data engineering team,
and then training a model and putting that model into production runtime environment.
It was an exciting set of projects and you can see those on numerous YouTube videos that have published out there before.
But I want you to think about the problem space a little bit,
because there are some interesting challenges about a AI/ML.
One is simply just getting access to the data,
and while there are numerous publicly available data sets,
when it comes to your specific enterprise use case, you might not be to find publicly available data.
In many cases you cannot, even for our applications that we created,
we had to create our data set, capture our data set, explore the data set,
and of course, train a model accordingly.
And we also found there's another challenge to be overcome in this a AI/ML world,
and that is access to certain types of hardware.
If you think about an enterprise environment and the creation of an enterprise application specifically for a AI/ML,
end users need an inference engine to run on their hardware.
Hardware that's available to them, to be effective for their application.
Let's say an application like Computer Vision, one that can detect anomalies and medical imaging or maybe on a factory floor.
As those things are whizzing by on the factory line there, looking at them and trying to determine if there is an error or not.
Well, how do you actually make it run on your hardware, your accessible technology that you have today.
Well, there's a solution for this as an open toolkit called OpenVINO.
And you might be thinking, "Hey, wait a minute, don't you need a GPU for AI inferencing, a GPU for artificial intelligence, machine learning?"
Well, not according to Ryan Loney, product manager of OpenVINO Developer Tools at Intel.
I guess I'll start with trying to maybe dispel a myth.
I think that CPUs are widely used for inference today.
So if we look at the data center segment, about 70% of the AI inference is happening on Intel Xeon, on our data center CPUs.
And so you don't need a GPU especially for running inference. And that's part of the value of OpenVINO,
is that we're taking models that may have been trained on a GPU using deep learning frameworks like PyTorch or TensorFlow,
and then optimizing them to run on Intel hardware.